Editorial review: Document Translator and Language Detector APIs (#39457)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/translator/availability_static/index.md

---
title: "Translator: availability() static method"
short-title: availability()
slug: Web/API/Translator/availability_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.Translator.availability_static
---

{{APIRef("Translator and Language Detector APIs")}}{{securecontext_header}}

> The **`availability()`** static method of the {{domxref("Translator")}} interface returns an enumerated value that indicates whether the browser AI model supports a given `Translator` configuration.

Reviewer: Not supports. Here and everywhere else we talk about this maybe

```suggestion
The **`availability()`** static method of the {{domxref("Translator")}} interface returns an enumerated value that indicates the availability of the AI model for the given `Translator` configuration.
```

> 

Reviewer: Given they both have default. I guess this will just return `available` for any language where they are both the same? Is that worth saying?

Author: I tested this, for both `availability()` and `create()`:

- For `availability()`, if you specify the same language for the `sourceLanguage` and `targetLanguage`, it returns `unavailable`, and prints an error message to the console, but it doesn't throw. I've added a sentence to the `unavailable` definition:

  > This value is also returned if the specified `sourceLanguage` and `targetLanguage` are the same.

- For `availability()`, if you specify the same language for the `sourceLanguage` and `targetLanguage`, it throws a `NotSupportedError` exception. I've added a sentence to the definition for this exception:

  > This is the case if the specified `sourceLanguage` and `targetLanguage` are the same.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Translator.availability(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options`

  - : An object specifying configuration options for the `Translator`. Possible values include:

>     - `sourceLanguage`

Reviewer: If this has a default then
```suggestion
    - `sourceLanguage` {{optional_inline}}
```

Author: oops, hold on. The spec says `required` for these options, so I shouldn't have included a default value. I've removed it.

I think I was assuming it was the same as the Summarizer API, whereas it isn't.

      - : A string specifying the language of the input text to be translated, which should be a valid [BCP 47 language tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag#List_of_common_primary_language_subtags) (as specified in [RFC 5646](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5646)). Defaults to `en`.

>     - `targetLanguage`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `targetLanguage` {{optional_inline}}
```

Author: Same as above; I've removed the default.

```js
const availability = await Translator.availability({
  sourceLanguage: "en",
  targetLanguage: "ja",
});
let translator;

if (availability === "unavailable") {
  console.log(
    `Translation not supported; try a different language combination.`,
  );
  return;
} else if (availability === "available") {
  translator = await Translator.create({
    sourceLanguage: "en",
    targetLanguage: "ja",
  });
} else {
  translator = await Translator.create({
    sourceLanguage: "en",
    targetLanguage: "ja",
    monitor: (monitor) => {
      monitor.addEventListener("downloadprogress", (e) => {
        console.log(`Downloaded ${Math.floor(e.loaded * 100)}%`);
      });
    },
  });
}
```

### Detecting language support

```js
async function langSupport(source, target) {
  const availability = await Translator.availability({
    sourceLanguage: source,
    targetLanguage: target,
  });
  return availability;
}

> langSupport("en", "fr");
> langSupport("en", "pt");
> langSupport("en", "zh");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
await langSupport("en", "fr");
await langSupport("en", "pt");
await langSupport("en", "zh");
```

- `downloading`
  - : The browser supports the given configuration, but it has to finish an ongoing download before it can proceed.
- `unavailable`

>   - : The browser does not support the given configuration. This value is also returned if the specified `sourceLanguage` and `targetLanguage` are the same.

Reviewer: FWIW, good fix.
